Titre: Energy-Based Models for Controlled Text Generation
Date: 06/04/2022
Organisme: Naver Labs Europe
Lieu: Grenoble

Research internship position at NAVER LABS Europe (Grenoble, France)
on Energy-Based Models for Controlled Text Generation

Start date: June 2022
Duration: 5-6 months

DESCRIPTION
Large language models can now be used to generate highly fluent texts.
However, the synthesized utterances can be deficient on other important
levels: semantic consistency, faithfulness to the facts, toxic or
socially biased content.

Our team has developed several effective solutions on that front
[1,2,3,4] exploiting the expressive power of Energy-Based Models in
defining constraints over generative models. However, certain
challenges remain: (1) How can we quickly adapt to changing control
conditions without the need for model retraining? (2) Can we exploit
these techniques to improve on hard-to-quantify features, such as
safety, unbiasedness, textual coherence, or matching the human
intention? (3) Can we improve training speed/robustness, for example,
by leveraging techniques from RL?

We are looking for a motivated intern to help us develop techniques
and algorithms addressing these challenges. Experiments will be
conducted on selected text generation tasks using the state of art
pre-trained language models.

The successful candidate should be enrolled in a graduate program, at
the Master or (preferably) PhD level.

The intern will work in a team integrated by Hady Elsahar, Marc
Dymetman, Germán Kruszewski, and Jos Rozen.

Publication of this internship's results in major
conferences/journals
will be strongly encouraged.

REQUIRED SKILLS
-   Strong programming skills
-   Relevant experience with training Deep Learning models for NLP
-   Strong mathematical skills
-   Ability to communicate research

OPTIONAL SKILLS
-   Knowledge of MCMC sampling techniques and/or Reinforcement Learning
-   Publications at peer-reviewed AI conferences

REFERENCES
[1] Khalifa et al., A Distributional Approach to Controlled Text
    Generation, In ICLR-2021
[2] Eikema et al., Sampling from Energy-Based Models with
    Quality/Efficiency Trade-offs, In CtrlGen at Neurips 2021
[3] Korbak et al., Energy-Based Models for Code Generation under
    Compilability Constraints, In NLP4prog at ACL2021
[4] Korbak et al. Controlling Conditional Language Models with
    Distributional Policy Gradients, In CtrlGen at Neurips 2021

APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS
Please note that applicants must be registered students at a university
or other academic institution and that this establishment will need to
sign an 'Internship Convention' with NAVER LABS Europe before the
student is accepted.

You can apply for this position online at
https://europe.naverlabs.com/job/energy-based-models-for-controlled-text-generation-internship-2/.
Don't forget to upload your CV and cover letter before you submit.
Incomplete applications will not be accepted.

ABOUT NAVER LABS
NAVER is the #1 Internet portal in Korea with activities that span a
wide range of businesses including search, commerce, content, financial
and cloud platforms.

NAVER LABS, co-located in Korea and France, is the organization
dedicated to preparing NAVER's future. NAVER LABS Europe is
located in a spectacular setting in Grenoble, in the heart of the
French Alps. Scientists at NAVER LABS Europe are empowered to pursue
long-term research problems that, if successful, can have significant
impact and transform NAVER. We take our ideas as far as research can to
create the best technology of its kind. Active participation in the
academic community and collaborations with world-class public research
groups are, among others, important tools to achieve these goals.
Teamwork, focus and persistence are important values for us.

NAVER LABS Europe is an equal opportunity employer.

For more information and application see
https://europe.naverlabs.com/job/energy-based-models-for-controlled-text-generation-internship-2/
